# 3-Dimensional Object Transformer
This is a Java project that is comprised of a few utilities for transforming 3D graphical objects. Supported file types are OBJ, OFF, and PLY. 

# About this Project
This project was developed solely by myself and can be used to read data from OBJ, OFF, and PLY files and then rotate the 3D objects stored inside along the x, y, and z axis by some angle θ that can be specified in the function. Because of the nature of this project, it was very useful to use abstract classes to represent different graphical objects that can be transformed and interfaces to represent the different classes used to read different file formats. 

# What is a 3D Object?
A 3D graphical object is comprised of a collection of polygons (shapes) put together, called a mesh. With enough polygons, you're able to represent complex shapes by putting them together; a larger number of smaller polygons allow for finer details. A polygon can also be broken down into a collection of vertices, each represented by a coordinate in 3-dimensional space. For example, you can represent a square by listing out the coordinates of its vertices in 3-dimensional space like so: {(0, 0, 0), (1, 0, 0), (1, 1, 0), (0, 1, 0)}. Each vertex is just a collection of three numbers, representing its x, y, and z coordinates in 3D space. That is exactly how a 3D object is stored within this project: a Mesh is comprised of a HashSet of Polygon objects, which each are in turn comprised of a HashSet of Vertex objects.

# How do you Transform a 3D Object?
A little bit of linear algebra knowledge is required to fully understand how and why this method works, but that is irrelevant to the implementation and functionality of these utilities, so the explanation is partially omitted. Given a vertex in 3D space, we're able to rotate it about the x-axis with angle θ by multiplying the vertex represented as a column vector by a transformation matrix, and this is the same for rotating about the y and z axis as well. In fact, multiplying this vector by any matrix causes some sort of transformation, and some interesting things can be done using matrix-vector multiplication, but that is outside the scope of this project.

# Project Structure
The text below describes how each of the mathematical objects spoken about is represented internally within the program, and how they all work together to represent a complete 3D object.

### Graphical Objects
Within this project, vertices, polygons, and meshes are all considered graphical objects that can be transformed, and so an abstract **GraphicalObject** class was created to represent each of these objects, and subclasses **Vertex**, **Polygon**, and **Mesh** were created to represent their respective objects. method Within a Mesh object is a HashSet of Polygon objects, which in turn contains a HashSet of Vertex objects, which contain an x, y, and z value representing the location of the Vertex in 3D space. In order to transform a Mesh, we must transform each of its Polygons, and in order to transform a Polygon, we must transform each of its Vertex objects. The **GraphicalObject** class has an abstract method called transform that is used to transform the given object. The transform method for a Mesh is defined in terms of the transform method for a Polygon, which is defined in terms of the same method for a Vertex. In order to transform a vertex, we perform the multiplication as indicated above using the x, y, and z values stored within the class and a matrix given as an argument to the transform method. Users are able to use the transform method directly to transform objects, or they may choose to use the provided rotateXAxis(double theta)/rotateYXAxis(double theta)/rotateZAxis(double theta) methods in the GraphicalObject class to rotate objects by an angle theta.

### The Readers and Writers
Because each file format is different, there are two interfaces representing a general MeshReader and MeshWriter respectively; both of these interfaces are implemented for all three supported file formats, so each of the three formats has both a reader and writer. Within the Mesh class, there are fields that store the type of MeshRead and MeshWriter that is to be used when its readFromFile() or writeToFile() methods are called. Users are easily able to set the type of MeshReader/MeshWriter that they wish to use by using the setReader() and setWriter() methods within the Mesh class. The use of abstractions and interfaces allow for less duplicate code and should there be a need, to easily add support for new file formats later on.

### JUnit Test Cases
There is a suite of test cases comprised of more than 30 unit tests that subject all of the classes defined in the project to rigorous testing in order to lower the possibility of unwanted behavior. 100% line coverage was achieved in all relevant classes.
